(someone else write the intro)

SDSLabs is roughly run as two cells (programming/design) that collaborate with each other on everything. So we'll take a look at the various tools, technologies, and applications that we use on a daily basis. It is our hope that some other groups in the campus might be interested in this. We're open to inquiry about any of this, and you can reach us anytime at contact@sdslabs.co.in.

Mailing List : Our mailing list, like most other groups runs on Google Groups. This is our primary means of communication. We send out a heavy amount of email each day and email-overload is an actual problem for people who just join.

Facebook Group : Like everyone else, we too have our own facebook private group. Unlike most other groups,we hardly use it. We find the facebook notification system terrible, and the comments system broken for serious discussion. Hence we limit discussion on facebook to bakar, and taking jibes at each other

Partychat : We have a partychat account that we use as our personal chatroom. We would have used Campfire, but its cost raises some barriers. Partychat, on the other hand creates a chatroom within gtalk chat for free. (explain difference between partychat and gtalk group chat). We all hang around at partychat, and most of our bakar sessions have shifted from facebook to chat. 

Hubot : Our partychat server includes hubot, our own personal robot. He announces cricket scores, keeps track of who is working on what, announces if anyone makes a commit, and helps us out with lots of stuff. We prank around lots of things with bot. (add screenshots here).

Dropbox : Our designers primarily share all their work through dropbox. It is all continously synced with dropbox, and available on Redmine for offline access. All our designs, past and present have a place in dropbox. We also use it to share documents, and work on some side projects till we can shift to github/redmine for code hosting.

Redmine : Redmine is a project management system running on rails. We use redmine extensively for code hosting(integrated with gitolite), issue tracking, and wikis. (add screenshots and more). Our git server is running gitolite and all our code is version controlled in git.

WorkFlowy : We use a custom account at workflowy.com with a shared list to easily manage lots of things. It is an easy-going tool which we find useful for quick edits, lookups and at times when creating a google-doc or an issue in redmine would be an overkill. We find that the list system of workflowy is an excellent place to chalk out ideas and hold brainstorming sessions in writing easily.

Presence : Presence is our automated presence detection system. A very common question we found on chat was asking "who all is in lab?". It became so common to ask this, that we turned to using technology to solve our problem. Presence answers this question for us. As mentioned earlier, our work culture is focussed on using personal laptops instead of workstations. Presence detects the presence of any device that you might own, and logs it down. We turn to presence anytime we want to check up on who all is present in lab. It uses lan, wifi, and bluetooth scans to sniff around people in general. It even takes a photo that refreshes every one minute to let us see what state the lab is in. We are looking to open-source presence in the near future in hopes it will be useful to others as well.

Llama : Llama is our in-house deployment/management system that helps us run services and deploy them easily. We have very loose access rules in place. Every lab member has access to the source code for every project. This leads to higher transparency in whatever we do.

StatusBoard : We try our best to keep as good of an uptime as possible, but there are lots of issues that we just cannot handle. As such, we're working on status-board, our own status server, that helps us keep track of all our services and their health at a glance. (Still under development or something)

We also run our own internal server for cdnjs, use piwik for statistics, and continue working on more amazing stuff. We do not limit ourselves to any technologies, and have work in php, js, node.js, ruby, scala, cpp and some other technologies as well. Our servers run on Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and we're looking to upgrade them to 12.04 soon. 

We will be recruiting for designers and programmers from first year in January. Any interested second yearites can send a mail to contact@sdslabs.co.in mentioning *prior work done*. 
